Richard Kingsley Morgan, (born 24 September 1965) is a British science fiction and fantasy author. Morgan's books are generally set in a post-extropianist dystopian world. Morgan described his "takeaway" of one of his books as: Society is, always has been and always will be a structure for the exploitation and oppression of the majority through systems of political force dictated by an elite, enforced by thugs, uniformed or not, and upheld by a wilful ignorance and stupidity on the part of the majority whom the system oppresses. He was born in Norfolk, and brought up in the village of Hethersett, near Norwich, and had a semi-rural upbringing. Morgan attended private school and later studied modern languages and history at Queens' College, Cambridge.[2] After graduating he started teaching English in order to travel the world. After 14 years and a post at the University of Strathclyde, his first novel was published and he became a full-time writer. He lived in Glasgow until 2015, when he moved to Saxlingham Nethergate with his wife Virginia and their son Daniel.[3] In 2002, Morgan's first novel Altered Carbon was published, combining elements of "cyberpunk" and hardboiled detective fiction and featuring the antihero Takeshi Kovacs. In 2003 the U.S. edition of Altered Carbon received the Philip K. Dick Award and the film rights were sold for a reported figure of $1,000,000 to film producer Joel Silver, enabling Morgan to become a full-time writer.[4] The film rights were later acquired by Laeta Kalogridis, but production was trapped in development hell for a decade, eventually gaining release in 2018 as a Netflix series.[5]
In 2003, Broken Angels was published, the sequel to Altered Carbon, again featuring Takeshi Kovacs and blending science fiction and war fiction in a similar way to his cross-genre debut. The success of this book solidified his literary reputation.[4] Market Forces, Morgan's first non-Kovacs novel, is set in the near future.[4] It was originally written as a short story, then as a screenplay (both unpublished). After the success of his first two works, it was released as a novel and optioned as a film.